$Id$

The following is excerpted from the GPSTk web/wiki site at http://www.gpstk.org/.
The website includes a variety of additional and the latest information 
including:
   * Source code and compiled binaries
   * Coding examples
   * Doxygen documentation
   * System requirements and build instructions
   * A users guide
   * Publications
   * Email lists
   * Support question/answer
   * Development process (including feature suggestions, bug tracking, 
      schedule, testing, and developer documentation)
   * Source code repository information
   * GPSTk IRC channel
   * Success stories

What is GPSTk?
--------------

The goal of the GPSTk project is to provide an open source library and suite
of applications to the satellite navigation community--to free researchers
to focus on research, not lower level coding.

GPS users employ practically every computational architecture and operating 
system. Therefore the design of the GPSTk suite is as platform-independent as 
possible. Platform independence is achieved through use of the ANSI-standard 
C++ programming language. The principles of object-oriented programming are 
used throughout the GPSTk code base in order to ensure that the code is 
modular, extensible and maintainable.

The GPSTk suite consists of a core library, auxiliary libriaries, and a set 
of applications. The GPSTk provides a wide array of functions that solve 
processing problems associated with GPS such as processing or using standard 
formats such as RINEX. The libraries are the basis for the more advanced 
applications distributed as part of the GPSTk suite.

The GPSTk is sponsored by Space and Geophysics Laboratory, within the Applied 
Research Laboratories at the University of Texas at Austin (ARL:UT). GPSTk is
the by-product of GPS research conducted at ARL:UT since before the first 
satellite launched in 1978; it is the combined effort of many software 
engineers and scientists. In 2003 the research staff at ARL:UT decided to 
open source much of their basic GPS processing software as the GPSTk.


GPSTk Core Library
------------------

The GPSTk core library consist of the most robust, broadly useful,  and 
platform independ code in the GPSTk.  It provides a number of models and 
algorithms found in GPS textbooks and classic papers, such as solving for 
the user position, or estimating atmospheric refraction. Common formats 
are supported as well, such as RINEX or SP-3. There are several categories 
of functions in the GPSTk library:

   1. GPS time. Conversion among time representations such as MJD, GPS week 
      and seconds of week, and many others.

   2. Ephemeris calculations. Position and clock interpolation for both
      broadcast and precise ephemerides.

   3. Atmospheric delay models. Includes ionosphere and troposphere models.

   4. Position solution. Includes an implementation of a Receiver Autonomous 
      Integrity Monitoring algorithm.

   5. Mathematics. Includes Matrix and Vector implementations, as well as 
      interpolation and numerical integration.

   6. GNSS data structure. Data structures that contain observations mapped
      to satellites.

   7. Application framework. Includes processing command lines options, 
      providing interactive help and working with file systems.

A more detailed description of the functionality provided by the GPSTk library 
can be found in the Doxygen documentation on the GPSTk website.

GPSTk Auxiliary Libraries
-------------------------
   The auxiliary libraries contains code that could be useful in GNSS processing 
but do not fit this description and portability of the core library. This code 
could contain highly specialized algorithms or be related to the message format 
of a specific receiver. The code could require libraries or system functions 
that are broadly available but not part of the C++ standard.  Currently the 
auxiliary libraries are:

   1. rxio - Receiver and input/output library
   2. vplot - Vector graphics library
   3. geomatics - Precise positioning library
   4. procframe - inital work at refactoring structures and prototype phase wind
        wind up support

GPSTk Applications
------------------

The libraries are the foundation for applications within the GPSTk suite. Many 
such applications are utilities necessary for advanced research and 
development. For example the GPSTk utility DiscFix fixes cycle slips. Some 
applications implement algorithms described in research papers. The TECMap 
application is an example of an application that creates models of the 
ionosphere, based on models published by a number of researchers. To date 
GPSTk applications fall into the following categories.

   1. Ionosphere modeling. TEC calculation, receiver bias estimation.

   2. Residual analysis. Computation of pseudorange observations residuals, 
      and comparison between the precise and broadcast ephemerides.

   3. RINEX file manipulation. Differencing, mergins and clipping RINEX files.

   4. Interactive analysis. Bindings to Python.


License
-------

The source code provided by the GPSTk is distributed under the GNU LGPL 
(http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html). This license gives all users the 
right to use and redistribute the code. Users of the GPSTk are not required 
to open their source, according to the LGPL. This makes the GPSTk a practical 
choice for commercial projects.

Contact Info
------------
The GPSTk is a collaborative effort. However, you can email to 
gpstk@arlut.utexas.edu or contact one of the CoreTeam members
(http://www.gpstk.org/bin/view/Development/CoreTeam).